strategies.md, before:

Here are some basic starting strategies for those who are new to this fork. Things are so different here than "vanilla" 
crawl, that these strategies can be quite helpful for showing the possibilities, as well as helping those who are 
struggling to survive in this fork.

## General strategies

### Melee Fighters

Heavier weapons will consume more stamina, and when you are out of stamina, you will be slower and do less damage. To
reduce stamina costs for attacks, you will need to train fighting and increase your strength. This means that sometimes
you will be better off using a lighter weapon (a mace instead of a great mace, for example) until you can get your stamina
costs low enough to effectively wield the heavier ones. You can often do more damage with a lighter weapon in power mode
than you could with a heavier weapon that forces you to frequently fight in an exhausted state.

If there is a chance you will need to run away from an encounter, don't use up too much stamina before deciding to do so.
Switching to quick mode [g] is necessary to escape most situations, and quick mode consumes stamina for each movement.
Once stamina is gone, you can't use quick mode, and will have a more difficult time escaping. 

Also keep in mind that heavy armour and shields will increase how much stamina is used while moving in quick mode, so
earlier in the game it may increase your survivability to wear lighter armour. 
    
### Ranged Fighters

Bows consume less stamina to fire than crossbows, but do less damage. So if you are a species that has higher fighting
aptitudes (to make up for the slow attack speed) and/or greater strength (to reduce stamina costs), crossbows may be 
a better choice. If you are a species with particularly low strength, you'd be better off with slings or bows.

Since ammo is unlimited, quiver "nothing" most of the time [q-]. Save your limited branded ammo for special enounters
where they will do the most good. 

Accuracy of ranged attacks drops significantly with distance. So getting your accuracy up is critical for a serious
ranged attacker that prefers to take out foes before they can get close. Increase your dexterity and weapon skills
to increase your accuracy. 

Pay close attention to the stamina cost of different weapons. You can see it in the item description page where it 
says "SP Cost". For example, a long bow has a considerbly higher SP cost than a shortbow, and even when you have 
a longbow, it can be more effective to use the shortbow until you can get that SP cost down to reasonable levels. 
Stamina costs are reduced by increasing strength and fighting skill.
 
For ranged fighters with weak defenses and trouble with ranged accuracy (which applies to most starting hunters), 
playing a lot of the game in "focus" mode [E] can be very helpful, since focus mode significantly increases
accuracy and all defenses (EV, SH, AC, MR). However, this comes at the cost of doubling your stamina costs, so if
you are struggling to not be exhausted for every battle, this may not be an option.
    
### General Spellcasters

One major difference here is that you can continue to cast spells even when out of magic, and even when exhausted.
However, your spell power will be diminished and your failure rates higher, so you want to avoid that situation as
much as possible. 

If you are often running low on MP, you can reduce your MP costs by increasing intelligence or 
spellcasting skill. In the meantime, use lower cost spells. Since spell caps have been effectively removed, even
level 1 spells can be viable and useful late in the game, at higher power levels. They are especially valuable early
game, when their MP cost is usually quite low compared to higher level spells, and so can be cast with power mode on
[e] (increasing spell power and spellcasting speed) for longer without exhausting you.

### Summoners and Necromancers

Summoning and raising dead reduces your max mp, which limits the total summons that you can have, based on the MP
costs of those spells. In other words, if you want to maintain more summons at once, reduce the costs of those spells.
Most significantly, don't cast those spells while in focus or power mode if you can do without, since that will cut
the cost in half.

If you have a horde of undead skeletons, and you want to raise another skeleton of a more powerful corpse, but don't
want to unsummon all of them, you can use [x] to select the one skeleton you want to release/unsummon, and press [q],
which will unsummon that one creature, allowing you to raise the skeleton of the new monster. 

You can do the same with normal summons. If you want to replace one of your summons with a different one, press [x],
select that summon, then press [q] and it will disappear, freeing the magic that was used to summon it. 

Summoning works very will with ranged weapons or spells, since they will pass through your summons. This only works
well though if you have a low failure rate on the spell that summoned them, because each time your missile passes
through them, the failure rate is checked, and the summon will disappear if the spell "fails". It's not a huge
deal since you can just recast it, but you may be low on MP in a battle, so keep this in mind.

### Transmuters

Since transmuting is usually done outside of battles, and MP isn't a significant constraint, nor is spellcasting 
speed, you typically don't need to train much spellcasting. Instead, you need to get your failure rate down as low
as possible, since each time you attack in a different form, that spell's failure rate is checked, and if it fails,
the form degrades. To minimize spell failure, add dexterity and train spell school skill (transmutation in this case).
Since multi-school spells now use the maximum skill instead of the average of all the skills, you only need to train
transmutation. Soon after you get your failure rates down to reasonable levels, it's a good idea to switch to
training Unarmed Combat, which will increase your accuracy, and more importantly your damage significantly. Fighting
skill will increase your attack speed and reduce stamina costs, but attack speed is already pretty low for unarmed
combat, and stamina costs are also quite low, so training Fighting can be put off until later in the game. 

It's often a good idea to play much of the early game in focus mode [E], which reduces spell failure rate enabling you
to stay in your form for longer. Once you get your failure rates very low even without focus mode, you can switch
to power mode [e] to dispatch enemies more quickly. If you are fighting a large group of enemies or a smaller group
of enemies that take longer to kill, turn off exertion modes [c] so you can conserve your stamina so you don't get
tired in the middle of a battle.

Spider form is one of the easiest forms to maintain, because it raises your dexterity so much, and dexterity lowers
the spell failure rate. Blade Hands is one of the hardest to maintain, because it has a significant spellcasting
penalty, increasing failure rate. It will take a lot of transmutation skill and/or dexterity to be able to maintain
Blade Hands for very long. 

## Troubleshooting

### Always running out of stamina (SP) when attacking
* Use a lighter weapon (which means lower SP cost). You can view SP cost in the item description page.
* Don't use exertion modes (power or focus modes) as much, since they double your SP cost.
    * Use [c] to cancel current exertion mode and switch back to normal mode.
* Reduce SP costs of your current weapon by training fighting or gaining strength.
* Don't leave quick mode on when battling. You can turn quick mode off with [s]. Quick mode burns stamina with every
  step you take, but not while you are standing still.
* Increase the size of your stamina pool with an artifact.
* Increase your SP regeneration rate with an amulet of stamina regeneration.

### Not having enough speed to escape, because SP keeps running out
* Conserve your SP better in a battle by using magic more, or exertion modes less (focus and power mode).
* Make sure you are in quick mode [g]. In non-quick mode (slow mode) you can't move faster than 1.1 even if you have
  a faster species or boots of running. In quick mode you will move faster than most monsters (unless you are a Naga).

### Always running out of magic (MP) when casting spells
* Use lower cost spells. You can see the spell costs in the spell detail page [S].
* Don't use exertion modes (power or focus modes) as much, since they double your MP cost.
* Reduce MP costs by training spellcasting or gaining intelligence. 
* Increase the size of your MP pool with an artifact.
* Increase your MP regeneration rate with an amulet of magic regeneration.

### Having trouble getting spell failure rates low enough to cast reliably
* Increase intelligence or spell school skills to reduce failure rate.
* Turn on focus mode [E], which significantly lowers failure rate.
* Try sticking with lower level spells which are much easier to cast until you can get the higher level ones online.
  Lower level spells are much more valuable here than in vanilla crawl, and tend to be useful for much longer. 

### Can't get up the stairs to escape
* Turn focus mode on when you reach the stairs, before attempting to ascend, to increase your defenses. If the monsters 
  can't do damage to you, they can't interrupt you from ascending the stairs. 
* Get to the stairs a little faster. Make sure you have quick mode on and have saved enough stamina to pay for it. Use
  slow hexes to slow down the enemies or a haste potion to give you that extra few steps needed to escape. 
* Keep trying if you have plenty of health. You only need to make it past 1 turn without being damaged by a monster to 
  ascend the stairs.
* If your health is getting low, stop trying to ascend the stairs. Instead use a teleport scroll to get away.

### Can't stay in transmuted form for long
* Transmutations test again spell failure each time you attack while in that form. 
* Reduce spell failure rates, especially while in that form, as much as possible, to extend the duration of the form.
* You can reduce failure rate by increasing spell school skill (the skills that apply to that spell) as well as increasing
  dexterity.

Commit message:

added amulet of quick casting

strategies.md, after:

Here are some basic starting strategies for those who are new to this fork. Things are so different here than "vanilla" 
crawl, that these strategies can be quite helpful for showing the possibilities, as well as helping those who are 
struggling to survive in this fork.

## General strategies

### Melee Fighters

Heavier weapons will consume more stamina, and when you are out of stamina, you will be slower and do less damage. To
reduce stamina costs for attacks, you will need to train fighting and increase your strength. This means that sometimes
you will be better off using a lighter weapon (a mace instead of a great mace, for example) until you can get your stamina
costs low enough to effectively wield the heavier ones. You can often do more damage with a lighter weapon in power mode
than you could with a heavier weapon that forces you to frequently fight in an exhausted state.

If there is a chance you will need to run away from an encounter, don't use up too much stamina before deciding to do so.
Switching to quick mode [g] is necessary to escape most situations, and quick mode consumes stamina for each movement.
Once stamina is gone, you can't use quick mode, and will have a more difficult time escaping. 

Also keep in mind that heavy armour and shields will increase how much stamina is used while moving in quick mode, so
earlier in the game it may increase your survivability to wear lighter armour. 
    
### Ranged Fighters

Bows consume less stamina to fire than crossbows, but do less damage. So if you are a species that has higher fighting
aptitudes (to make up for the slow attack speed) and/or greater strength (to reduce stamina costs), crossbows may be 
a better choice. If you are a species with particularly low strength, you'd be better off with slings or bows.

Since ammo is unlimited, quiver "nothing" most of the time [q-]. Save your limited branded ammo for special enounters
where they will do the most good. 

Accuracy of ranged attacks drops significantly with distance. So getting your accuracy up is critical for a serious
ranged attacker that prefers to take out foes before they can get close. Increase your dexterity and weapon skills
to increase your accuracy. 

Pay close attention to the stamina cost of different weapons. You can see it in the item description page where it 
says "SP Cost". For example, a long bow has a considerbly higher SP cost than a shortbow, and even when you have 
a longbow, it can be more effective to use the shortbow until you can get that SP cost down to reasonable levels. 
Stamina costs are reduced by increasing strength and fighting skill.
 
For ranged fighters with weak defenses and trouble with ranged accuracy (which applies to most starting hunters), 
playing a lot of the game in "focus" mode [E] can be very helpful, since focus mode significantly increases
accuracy and all defenses (EV, SH, AC, MR). However, this comes at the cost of doubling your stamina costs, so if
you are struggling to not be exhausted for every battle, this may not be an option.
    
### General Spellcasters

One major difference here is that you can continue to cast spells even when out of magic, and even when exhausted.
However, your spell power will be diminished and your failure rates higher, so you want to avoid that situation as
much as possible. 

If you are often running low on MP, you can reduce your MP costs by increasing intelligence or 
spellcasting skill. In the meantime, use lower cost spells. Since spell caps have been effectively removed, even
level 1 spells can be viable and useful late in the game, at higher power levels. They are especially valuable early
game, when their MP cost is usually quite low compared to higher level spells, and so can be cast with power mode on
[e] (increasing spell power and spellcasting speed) for longer without exhausting you.

### Conjurers

For spells that are heavily dependent on spell power (such as conjurations), playing in power mode as much as possible
early in the game will help, since it boost spell power, which increases damage significantly. It also reduces casting
time, which is vital early in the game when casting spells is slow. Training conjurations will increase spellpower of
all conjuration spells, as well as reducing fail rate. And putting all points possible into intelligence early in the 
game will also boost spell power, and give the added advantage of steadily reducing MP cost of spells. This should be
all you need to train early game, until you start to need more powerful spells. Eventually you'll want to train
spellcasting too to reduce MP costs and increase your casting speed, but in most cases you are better off wainting
until you are past the early game stage to train spellcasting. 

### Summoners and Necromancers

Summoning and raising dead reduces your max mp, which limits the total summons that you can have, based on the MP
costs of those spells. In other words, if you want to maintain more summons at once, reduce the costs of those spells.
Most significantly, don't cast those spells while in focus or power mode if you can do without, since that will cut
the cost in half.

If you have a horde of undead skeletons, and you want to raise another skeleton of a more powerful corpse, but don't
want to unsummon all of them, you can use [x] to select the one skeleton you want to release/unsummon, and press [q],
which will unsummon that one creature, allowing you to raise the skeleton of the new monster. 

You can do the same with normal summons. If you want to replace one of your summons with a different one, press [x],
select that summon, then press [q] and it will disappear, freeing the magic that was used to summon it. 

Summoning works very will with ranged weapons or spells, since they will pass through your summons. This only works
well though if you have a low failure rate on the spell that summoned them, because each time your missile passes
through them, the failure rate is checked, and the summon will disappear if the spell "fails". It's not a huge
deal since you can just recast it, but you may be low on MP in a battle, so keep this in mind.

### Transmuters

Since transmuting is usually done outside of battles, and MP isn't a significant constraint, nor is spellcasting 
speed, you typically don't need to train much spellcasting. Instead, you need to get your failure rate down as low
as possible, since each time you attack in a different form, that spell's failure rate is checked, and if it fails,
the form degrades. To minimize spell failure, add dexterity and train spell school skill (transmutation in this case).
Since multi-school spells now use the maximum skill instead of the average of all the skills, you only need to train
transmutation. Soon after you get your failure rates down to reasonable levels, it's a good idea to switch to
training Unarmed Combat, which will increase your accuracy, and more importantly your damage significantly. Fighting
skill will increase your attack speed and reduce stamina costs, but attack speed is already pretty low for unarmed
combat, and stamina costs are also quite low, so training Fighting can be put off until later in the game. 

It's often a good idea to play much of the early game in focus mode [E], which reduces spell failure rate enabling you
to stay in your form for longer. Once you get your failure rates very low even without focus mode, you can switch
to power mode [e] to dispatch enemies more quickly. If you are fighting a large group of enemies or a smaller group
of enemies that take longer to kill, turn off exertion modes [c] so you can conserve your stamina so you don't get
tired in the middle of a battle.

Spider form is one of the easiest forms to maintain, because it raises your dexterity so much, and dexterity lowers
the spell failure rate. Blade Hands is one of the hardest to maintain, because it has a significant spellcasting
penalty, increasing failure rate. It will take a lot of transmutation skill and/or dexterity to be able to maintain
Blade Hands for very long. 

## Troubleshooting

### Always running out of stamina (SP) when attacking
* Use a lighter weapon (which means lower SP cost). You can view SP cost in the item description page.
* Don't use exertion modes (power or focus modes) as much, since they double your SP cost.
    * Use [c] to cancel current exertion mode and switch back to normal mode.
* Reduce SP costs of your current weapon by training fighting or gaining strength.
* Don't leave quick mode on when battling. You can turn quick mode off with [s]. Quick mode burns stamina with every
  step you take, but not while you are standing still.
* Increase the size of your stamina pool with an artifact.
* Increase your SP regeneration rate with an amulet of stamina regeneration.

### Not having enough speed to escape, because SP keeps running out
* Conserve your SP better in a battle by using magic more, or exertion modes less (focus and power mode).
* Make sure you are in quick mode [g]. In non-quick mode (slow mode) you can't move faster than 1.1 even if you have
  a faster species or boots of running. In quick mode you will move faster than most monsters (unless you are a Naga).

### Always running out of magic (MP) when casting spells
* Use lower cost spells. You can see the spell costs in the spell detail page [S].
* Don't use exertion modes (power or focus modes) as much, since they double your MP cost.
* Reduce MP costs by training spellcasting or gaining intelligence. 
* Increase the size of your MP pool with an artifact.
* Increase your MP regeneration rate with an amulet of magic regeneration.

### Having trouble getting spell failure rates low enough to cast reliably
* Increase intelligence or spell school skills to reduce failure rate.
* Turn on focus mode [E], which significantly lowers failure rate.
* Try sticking with lower level spells which are much easier to cast until you can get the higher level ones online.
  Lower level spells are much more valuable here than in vanilla crawl, and tend to be useful for much longer. 

### Can't get up the stairs to escape
* Turn focus mode on when you reach the stairs, before attempting to ascend, to increase your defenses. If the monsters 
  can't do damage to you, they can't interrupt you from ascending the stairs. 
* Get to the stairs a little faster. Make sure you have quick mode on and have saved enough stamina to pay for it. Use
  slow hexes to slow down the enemies or a haste potion to give you that extra few steps needed to escape. 
* Keep trying if you have plenty of health. You only need to make it past 1 turn without being damaged by a monster to 
  ascend the stairs.
* If your health is getting low, stop trying to ascend the stairs. Instead use a teleport scroll to get away.

### Can't stay in transmuted form for long
* Transmutations test again spell failure each time you attack while in that form. 
* Reduce spell failure rates, especially while in that form, as much as possible, to extend the duration of the form.
* You can reduce failure rate by increasing spell school skill (the skills that apply to that spell) as well as increasing
  dexterity.
